Article Two --- Functions
=========================

The **Faculty of the College** shall consist of persons holding academic
appointments as professor, associate professor, assistant professor, senior
lecturer, lecturer, senior instructor, and instructor.

**2.1.  The role of the faculty in the governance process** is to ensure and
maintain academic integrity of the College, enhance the intellectual life of
the institution, and promote the interests of the Faculty as related to
College operations. Under the authority of the Board of Trustees, the
President, and the Provost, the Faculty shall determine the academic policies
of the various departments and programs, and administer the curriculum. The
Faculty shall have general charge of all aspects of the College related to
instruction and learning. The Faculty shall make rules for its organization,
for its conduct of business, and for organization of committees and the proper
discharge of its duties.

**2.2. The Faculty is concerned with the overall welfare of the College** and
makes policies and/or advises in such matters as appointment, reappointment,
promotion and tenure of faculty members; addresses faculty welfare issues,
including policies regarding workload, compensation, leaves, and retirement;
assists in planning for the future of the College; makes recommendations for
budgeting of funds for purposes of instruction and research; makes
recommendations for the function and design of College buildings; participates
in the appointment of faculty members to Faculty Standing Committees and
College Committees as appropriate; and participates in the selection of
Department/Program Chairs and major College officers.
