Statement of Purpose
--------------------

An outstanding historically Black college for women, Spelman promotes academic
excellence in the liberal arts. This predominantly residential private college
provides students with an academic climate that develops their intellectual
and leadership potential. The College is a member of the Atlanta University
Center consortium, and Spelman students enjoy the benefits of a small college
while having access to the resources of the other participating institutions.
The educational program at the College is designed to give students a
comprehensive liberal arts background through study in the arts, humanities,
social sciences, and natural sciences. Students are encouraged to think
critically and creatively and to improve their communicative, quantitative,
and technological skills. The academic program prepares students for graduate
and professional study as well as for entry into the world of work. Spelman
seeks to empower the whole person. The College provides an environment that
enables self-confidence, cultural enrichment, and spiritual well-being
intended to instill in students an appreciation for the many cultures of the
world, a willingness to serve the community, and a sense of responsibility for
bringing about positive change.

Spelman offers an educational experience characterized by excellence. It
reinforces a sense of pride and hope, develops character, and inspires a love
of learning. The programs of the College rest on the expectation that the
students, the community, and society at large will benefit from a liberal arts
education. Spelman has been and expects to continue to be a major resource for
educating women leaders of African ancestry.

The above statement of purpose has been translated into a list of
institutional goals and a list of behaviors that the Spelman College graduate
should be able to demonstrate. The institutional goals follow this section.
